initial commit of using code repo and iacm to create ccm aws member a… (#8239)
harness/developer-hub: kb/reference-architectures/ccm/Creating CCM Cloud Connectors At Scale/ccm-connectors-via-code-repo-and-iacm.md

---
title: Harness Modules Code Repo + IaCM for Automatic Creation of CCM Cloud Connectors
description: Automatically Create CCM Cloud Connectors via Harness Modules Code Repo and IaCM
---

# Overview

> The process below defines a system where we can use the Harness modules Code Repository and IaCM together to accomplish creating CCM cloud connectors at scale.  For this excercise, we'll focus on AWS CCM Cloud Connectors, but other cloud providers could follow this same process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The process below defines a system where we can use the Harness modules Code Repository and Infrastructure as Code together to accomplish creating CCM cloud connectors at scale.  For this exercise, we'll focus on AWS CCM Cloud Connectors, but other cloud providers could follow this same process.
```

We should spell out the module on first reference.

This will be used to store and maintain our IaC.

1. Go into your new project and createa a new Code Repository, Repository. This will hold the code for our CCM connectors.

![](../../static/new_code_repo.png)

2. Create a main.tf file that contains Terraform code.  We'll use two parts of this: [Part 1](https://developer.harness.io/kb/cloud-cost-management/articles/best-practices/aws-connectors-and-roles#setup-providers) is for the providers portion and [Part 2](https://developer.harness.io/kb/cloud-cost-management/articles/best-practices/aws-connectors-and-roles#use-the-built-in-locals-value-to-define-the-accounts-statically) for defining accounts statically.  Note: For the role_arn, you'll have to replace the role name with whatever role you provisioned in each account for Harness to use.  It has to have the appropriate permissions done correctly for each CCM feature you want to use.  Setting up this roles is outside the scope of this excercise, but possibilities are located [here](https://developer.harness.io/kb/cloud-cost-management/articles/best-practices/aws-connectors-and-roles#create-roles-in-each-aws-account).

> ![](../../static/ccm_iacm_main.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\```
terraform {
  required_providers {
    aws = {
      source  = "hashicorp/aws"
      version = "~> 5.0"
    }
    harness = {
      source = "harness/harness"
    }
  }
}

provider "aws" {
  region = "us-east-1"
}

provider "harness" {}

data "harness_platform_current_account" "current" {}

locals {
  aws-non-prod = ["000000000005", "000000000006"]
  aws-prod = ["000000000007", "000000000008"]
}

resource "harness_platform_connector_awscc" "data" {
  for_each = toset(concat(local.aws-non-prod, local.aws-prod))

  identifier = "aws${each.key}"
  name       = "aws${each.key}"

  account_id = trimspace(each.key)

  features_enabled = [
    "OPTIMIZATION",
    "VISIBILITY",
    "GOVERNANCE",
  ]
  cross_account_access {
    role_arn    = "arn:aws:iam::${each.key}:role/HarnessCERole"
    external_id = "harness:891928451355:${data.harness_platform_current_account.current.id}"
  }
}
\```
```

For the Harness platform API Key, you'll need to:

1. Create a service account
2. Give the service account account admin for all resources including child scopes.  This is overpermissive.  If you want, you can also create a custom role that only has connector admin.
3. Create an API key, then a token.  Copy the token value
4. Createa a new secret with the token

![](../../static/service-account-iacm-connectors.png)

![](../../static/iacm-ccm-connector-secret.png)

      ```
      HARNESS_ACCOUNT_ID (string). Built in Harness variable = <+account.identifier>
      HARNESS_PLATFORM_API_KEY (secret) = New secret created from the steps above
      ```

![](../../static/iacm-ccm-variables.png)

###  Create A Terraform Pipeline

Create a new pipeline.  The pipeline will be used to run our init, plan, and apply Terraform stages.

1. Add a new stage.  Select `Infrastructure` as the stage type and name the stage `ccm_connectors`

>     - Select the infrastructure as Kuberenetes, select the Kubernetes cluster you identified earlier on at the beginning of the setup portion of this guide, and choose your namespace\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Select the infrastructure as Kubernetes, select the Kubernetes cluster you identified earlier on at the beginning of the setup portion of this guide, and choose your namespace
```

![](../../static/iacm-connector-stage-infra.png)

> 2. Select the workspace we created in the step above
> 3. For execution, choose the 'Provision Terraform' operation
> 4. Remove the `init`, `plan`, and `apply` pre-built steps as these are for Terraform and we are using OpenTofu
> 5. Add Step, select 'IACM OpenTofu Plugin'.  Set the command to `init` and leave everything else the same
> 6. Add Step, select 'IACM OpenTofu Plugin'.  Set the command to `plan` and leave everything else the same
> 8. Add Step, select 'IACM Approval'.  Leave everything else the same
> 7. Add Step, select 'IACM OpenTofu Plugin'.  Set the command to `apply` and leave everything else the same
> 8. Save the stage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the workspace we created in the step above
3. For execution, choose the 'Blank Canvas' operation
4. Add a step, select 'IACM OpenTofu Plugin'.  Set the command to `init` and leave everything else the same
5. Add another step, select 'IACM OpenTofu Plugin'.  Set the command to `plan` and leave everything else the same
6. Add another step, select 'IACM Approval'.  Leave everything else the same
7. Add a final step, select 'IACM OpenTofu Plugin'.  Set the command to `apply` and leave everything else the same
8. Save the stage
```

---
title: Harness Modules Code Repo + IaCM for Automatic Creation of CCM Cloud Connectors
description: Automatically Create CCM Cloud Connectors via Harness Modules Code Repo and IaCM
---

# Overview

The process below defines a system where we can use the Harness modules Code Repository and Infrastructure as Code together to accomplish creating CCM cloud connectors at scale.  For this exercise, we'll focus on AWS CCM Cloud Connectors, but other cloud providers could follow this same process.

To accomplish this, we will store our Terraform code in Code Repository.  We'll then use this repo in the IaCM module to apply the connectors.

Users of this guide should have an understanding of the Harness modules Code Repository, IaCM, and CCM.

## Setup

> In the pipeline portion of this guide, we will need a Kubernetes cluster, a delegate running in the cluster that has permissions to deploy a pod.  Please don't proceed until there is confirmation this is configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the pipeline portion of this guide we will need a Kubernetes cluster a delegate running in the cluster that has permissions to deploy a pod.  Please don't proceed until there is confirmation this is configured.
```

###  Create A Project

The project will use the Code Repository and IaCM modules.

![](../../static/new_project.png)

###  Create A New Code Repository and Add IaC Code For Connectors

This will be used to store and maintain our IaC.

> 1. Go into your new project and create a new Code Repository, Repository. This will hold the code for our CCM connectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go into your new project and create a new Code repository. This will hold the code for our CCM connectors.
```
Code is the shortname for the module and we are creating a repo, so just shortening the statement.

![](../../static/new_code_repo.png)

> 2. Create a main.tf file that contains Terraform code.  We'll use two parts of this: [Part 1](https://developer.harness.io/kb/cloud-cost-management/articles/best-practices/aws-connectors-and-roles#setup-providers) is for the providers portion and [Part 2](https://developer.harness.io/kb/cloud-cost-management/articles/best-practices/aws-connectors-and-roles#use-the-built-in-locals-value-to-define-the-accounts-statically) for defining accounts statically.  Note: For the role_arn, you'll have to replace the role name with whatever role you provisioned in each account for Harness to use.  It has to have the appropriate permissions done correctly for each CCM feature you want to use.  Setting up this roles is outside the scope of this exercise, but possibilities are located [here](https://developer.harness.io/kb/cloud-cost-management/articles/best-practices/aws-connectors-and-roles#create-roles-in-each-aws-account).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a main.tf file that contains Terraform code.  We'll use two parts of this: [Part 1](https://developer.harness.io/kb/cloud-cost-management/articles/best-practices/aws-connectors-and-roles#setup-providers) is for the providers portion and [Part 2](https://developer.harness.io/kb/cloud-cost-management/articles/best-practices/aws-connectors-and-roles#use-the-built-in-locals-value-to-define-the-accounts-statically) for defining accounts statically.

Note: For the role_arn, you'll have to replace the role name `HarnessCERole` with whatever role name you used when you provisioned it into each AWS account for Harness to use.  It has to have the appropriate permissions done correctly for each CCM feature you want to use.  Setting up this roles is outside the scope of this exercise, but possibilities are located [here](https://developer.harness.io/kb/cloud-cost-management/articles/best-practices/aws-connectors-and-roles#create-roles-in-each-aws-account).
```

      source = "harness/harness"
    }
  }
}

provider "aws" {
  region = "us-east-1"
}

provider "harness" {}

data "harness_platform_current_account" "current" {}

locals {
  aws-non-prod = ["000000000005", "000000000006"]
  aws-prod = ["000000000007", "000000000008"]
}

resource "harness_platform_connector_awscc" "data" {
  for_each = toset(concat(local.aws-non-prod, local.aws-prod))

  identifier = "aws${each.key}"
  name       = "aws${each.key}"

  account_id = trimspace(each.key)

  features_enabled = [
    "OPTIMIZATION",
    "VISIBILITY",
    "GOVERNANCE",
  ]
  cross_account_access {
    role_arn    = "arn:aws:iam::${each.key}:role/HarnessCERole"
    external_id = "harness:891928451355:${data.harness_platform_current_account.current.id}"
  }
}
```

###  Create A New IaCM Workspace

We'll use this to store our IaC configuration, variables, states, and other resources necessary to manage our AWS CCM cloud connectors

1. Navigate to the IaCM module and create a new workspace.  
    - Provisioner:
        - Connector (a few options): 
            - If you have a AWS connector for your master billing account already (not a CCM AWS connector), choose this for your connector.  

>             - If you need to create a new connector, the suggestion is to use OIDC. You'll have to provision a role in your master billing AWS account that trusts Harness.  In setup, you can skip setting up the backoff strategy and select connect through Harness platform for the connectivity mode.  You have to select a connector to complete setup.  Even though we aren't going to use this connector in our example (because we are getting the account ids statically in the Terraform code), we still have to specify the connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - If you need to create a new connector, the suggestion is to [use OIDC](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/connectors/cloud-providers/ref-cloud-providers/aws-connector-settings-reference/#credentials). You'll have to provision a role in your master billing AWS account that trusts Harness. In setup, you can skip setting up the backoff strategy and select connect through Harness platform for the connectivity mode.  You have to select a connector to complete setup.  Even though we aren't going to use this connector in our example (because we are getting the account ids statically in the Terraform code), we still have to specify the connector.
```

        - Workspace Type:

>             - Choose the latest version of OpenTofu as we only have old versions of Terraform to choose from since Hashicorp changed their licensing model.  Your Terraform code is compatible with OpenTofu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - Choose the latest version of OpenTofu as our support for Terraform ends with 1.5.7 [due to licensing changes](https://developer.harness.io/docs/infra-as-code-management/whats-supported/#supported-iac-frameworks).
```

    - Repository:
        - Choose Harness Code Repository and select the repository we created in the first step.  Select main as the branch and the folder path should be blank as we created the main.tf in the root directory.

![](../../static/ccm_iacm_new_workspace.png)

#### Define Variables

The AWS authentication is handled via the OIDC connector defined above, but Harness authentication still needs to be configured.  To define the Harness authentication, we need to define two environment variables: Harness account id and Harness platform API key.  

For the Harness platform API Key, you'll need to:

1. Create a service account

> 2. Give the service account account admin for all resources including child scopes.  This is overpermissive.  If you want, you can also create a custom role that only has connector admin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Give the service account account admin for all account level resources.  This is overpermissive.  If you want, you can also create a custom role that only has connector admin.
```

> 3. Create an API key, then a token.  Copy the token value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create an API key, then a token. Copy the token value
```

4. Create a a new secret with the token

![](../../static/service-account-iacm-connectors.png)

![](../../static/iacm-ccm-connector-secret.png)

      ```
      HARNESS_ACCOUNT_ID (string). Built in Harness variable = <+account.identifier>
      HARNESS_PLATFORM_API_KEY (secret) = New secret created from the steps above
      ```

![](../../static/iacm-ccm-variables.png)

###  Create A Terraform Pipeline

> Create a new pipeline.  The pipeline will be used to run our init, plan, and apply Terraform stages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new pipeline. The pipeline will be used to run our init, plan, and apply Terraform stages.
```

> 1. Add a new stage.  Select `Infrastructure` as the stage type and name the stage `ccm_connectors`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add a new stage. Select `Infrastructure` as the stage type and name the stage `ccm_connectors`
```
